= Executive Information Systems =

Executive Information Systems (EIS) are Information Systems that access large amounts of business information from various sources - internal and external to the organization - and provides decision support mediums to the organization's senior executives.

These mediums permit the executive managers to highlight patterns in the business process by analysing, comparing and determining trends in the provided mediums - spreadsheets, graphic charts, pivot tables, reports, etc.

As an example of EIS use, consider the following scenario:

Erasmus administrators can do a weekly check on student enrollment information. Using a web browser, they can access that information in a personalized fashion by presenting subsets of the information - views. These views can be "drilled-down" to minute levels of information or "rolled-up" to display a broader view.

Since executive users are not necessarily data analysts, the EIS user interface must be as simple as possible, but without sacrificing presentation dynamics.

With these criteria in mind, the following key requirements for an EIS where identified:

* Cross Platform 
* Ease of Use 
* Limited Training 
* Quick Response 
* Large Volumes of Data 
* Deployment Through the Web 
* Easy Graphical Presentation Options 
* Ability to Access Subsets of Data (Drill Down)

== Architecture ==

An EIS can be divided into three main levels of architecture, that covers the technology used to extract, analyse and visualize information from other data sources with a friendly and flexible user interface.

== Data Management Level ==

The Data Management Level deals with the extraction, analysis and processing of the internal and external data sources and passes that data through an ETL - Extract, Transform and Load - process that organizes and aggregates the data into the Data Warehouse. The use of ETL and Data Warehouses can be more efficient to the EIS due to it's data treatment and Warehouse data model.

=== ETL ===

The ETL process parses the data and performs these possible operations:

* Translation into database compatible rows / columns
* Translate code values
* Remove / Add / Translate code values
* Change data encoding
* Sorting
* Data validation
* Summarize data
* Join data from various sources
* Generating surrogate keys

Also, ETL process can make use of temporary database tables for intermediate processing.

=== Data Warehouse ===

A Data Warehouse holds the processed information into a database designed properly for the retrieval of large amounts of data. The database structure is composed of fact tables and dimension tables, connected by their keys in a Star or Snowflake fashion.

A fact table holds facts - an aggregation of contextualized fields and numerical values for measurement.
A Dimension table holds the various combinations of a given dimension, often identified by a part of the composite key in the fact table and serves as a means to restrict and summarize the information contained in the fact table ("roll-up" and "drill-down" operations).



== Interface ==

The interface should be flexible and intuitive enough for users without previous skills to select the indicators they want and operate filters by several dimensions and metrics - this operation can be called a "scenario". Theses "scenarios" can be saved and edited for later used by the user.



[[Glossary]]
[[Bibliography]] 
