Pedro (PT): (19:07) we will start with portugal
Daniel (PT): (19:07) ok
Daniel (PT): (19:08) What's been done: - EIS interface specification analysis  - Partial "final solution" integration in the git app directory
Daniel (PT): (19:08) What's our next step:     - Continue to review EIS interface     - Populate current EIS db solution     - Write Plonk module
Daniel (PT): (19:09) we propose the following discussion:
Daniel (PT): (19:09) To start integration of the "final solution" I need to know if there's anyone who:  
Daniel (PT): (19:10)  * Doesn't know what source code versioning is
Daniel (PT): (19:10)  * Doesn't know how to work with Git or doesn't see the point of using it
Daniel (PT): (19:10) * Doesn't see the point of integrating and working on a single directory from the git repository
Daniel (PT): (19:10)  * Has everyone setup their xAMP server or needs any help?
Daniel (PT): (19:10) ok NEXT
Pedro (PT): (19:10) first welcom reimer



Pedro (PT): (19:10) germany next
Arne L (Germany): (19:11) us??
Arne L (Germany): (19:11) ok
Arne L (Germany): (19:12) yes, we overworked a bit the infox and it is now ready, i am currently on work to upload it on Git. Had not that much Time last week abut we have now two weeks free so we can work a bit harder. next...tomorrow i will finalize the design and upload it
Pedro (PT): (19:13) thats it?
Arne L (Germany): (19:13) yes



Pedro (PT): (19:13) ok next belgium
Nathan: (19:13) since we had our easter holiday week we didn't work on the project this week, but since we now have the complete database, from tomorrow on, we can start on working on the flow of the application from register to pre-candidate and so on ..
Pedro (PT): (19:14) if thats it please say so
Nathan: (19:14) ?
Pedro (PT): (19:14) if you have nothing more to say
Nathan: (19:15) thats it :)
Pedro (PT): (19:15) ok thanks



Pedro (PT): (19:15) greece
aggeliki: (19:15) we ar estill working on the validation of the rest of the forms
Stefanos (Greece): (19:16) we also started connecting with db
Stefanos (Greece): (19:17) but we have some questions about whats saved and where
Stefanos (Greece): (19:17) so we preparing an email for Stefan..
Stefanos (Greece): (19:18) so in the end of this week we gonna have some forms for testing..
Stefanos (Greece): (19:18) thats all
Pedro (PT): (19:18) ok thank you all






Pedro (PT): (19:18) ok thank you all
Pedro (PT): (19:18) now to the pourpose of this meeting
Pedro (PT): (19:18) as has been sayed in the emails and now by daniel
Pedro (PT): (19:18) we think its time to start putting the pieces together
Pedro (PT): (19:19) special to get a new view on the DB and try to finalise it
Pedro (PT): (19:20) now about deploying a product in a version controler, git in this case, daniel has more experience so i will pass the word to him
Daniel (PT): (19:21) ok everyone read what I wrote earlier?
Nathan: (19:22) uhu
Arne L (Germany): (19:22) yes
aggeliki: (19:22) y
Daniel (PT): (19:22) does anyone havy any questions, or doesnt understand the points
Stefanos (Greece): (19:22) yes
Daniel (PT): (19:23) any git haters here?
Nathan: (19:23) i guess ina
Nathan: (19:23) but since she isnt here :p
Arne L (Germany): (19:23) you mean, i put my local documentroot on the git folder, and before i start i make a pull and after rthe work is done i will comit??
Daniel (PT): (19:23) yah I guess we'll have to make the best without bulgaria
Daniel (PT): (19:24) ok I'm talking about everyone setting up their xAMP server in their PC's
Arne L (Germany): (19:24) true
Daniel (PT): (19:25) yes arne but let me explain
Daniel (PT): (19:25) the repository... the directory called erasmusline will contain our combined efforts
Daniel (PT): (19:26) a working demo for us to see and test
Daniel (PT): (19:26) and guves us a bit of motivation
Daniel (PT): (19:26) it would be nice to go to http://localhost/mutworange/erasmusline/ and see something wouldnt it?
Daniel (PT): (19:27) so i would suggest
Daniel (PT): (19:27) (for those who havent done that)
Arne L (Germany): (19:28) i have no problem with that
Daniel (PT): (19:28) 1. setting up your Apache, Mysql
Arne L (Germany): (19:28) i have no prob with that
Arne L (Germany): (19:28) wow...my connection is so slow
Daniel (PT): (19:28) goto your htdocs, document root or whatever and clone the git repository and work from there
Daniel (PT): (19:29) in the erasmusline directory
Daniel (PT): (19:29) since belgium are the Plonk guys i suggest they start by putting a working skeleton in that directory
Daniel (PT): (19:30) so when the rest of the team pulls the changes they can start working in that folder
Nathan: (19:30) ok, no problem
Nathan: (19:30) first thing tomorrow morning
Pedro (PT): (19:30) ok so every1 present beleive they can start doing this this week?
Daniel (PT): (19:30) INFOX can be integrated there, IN, OUT, etc
Nathan: (19:30) so it will be online tomorrow evening, since git doesn't work @ our schoo
Nathan: (19:31) *school
Daniel (PT): (19:31) CCONFIG also
Pedro (PT): (19:31) greece any questions?
Stefanos (Greece): (19:31) nop
aggeliki: (19:31) we will have,by tomorrow 
aggeliki: (19:31) :)
Daniel (PT): (19:31) because we need the config module to handle permissions or did I misenterpret it?
Pedro (PT): (19:31) ok then its decided
Daniel (PT): (19:32) that erasmusline folder can also have
Pedro (PT): (19:32) now this will almost shurely arrise DB design questions
Daniel (PT): (19:32) the current erasmusline DB sql script
Pedro (PT): (19:32) so with actualy implementing and such alot more questions realisations etc will arrise
Daniel (PT): (19:33) ok
Pedro (PT): (19:33) so for the next meeting we will discuss the necessety of creating some simple DB design meeting
Pedro (PT): (19:33) 2-3 per week
Pedro (PT): (19:34) in which 1 is using the whiteboard and changing the DB given the requests
Pedro (PT): (19:34) because from this point on any changes need to be done in group
Pedro (PT): (19:34) so it doesnt afect some1 blindly
Daniel (PT): (19:34) besides plonk we need the HP layout and styles implemented to start being used by everyone







Pedro (PT): (19:36) has i sayd in the first meeting after the rootation finishes portugal can take the coordenator part from there on
Pedro (PT): (19:37) so lets make a pool in who wants to keep the rotation or keep it on portugal from now on
Pedro (PT): (19:37) yes for rotation no for portugal
Arne R.: (19:37) i'm fine with the rotation
Arne L (Germany): (19:38) we can rotate between pedro and daniel ;-)
Nathan: (19:38) :D lol
Arne L (Germany): (19:38) but i dont care...
Pedro (PT): (19:38) we have no problem with that
Nathan: (19:38) i vote portugal :p
Daniel (PT): (19:38) oh you're so sweet
Pedro (PT): (19:38) jsut making the pool because some may want to keep it
Pedro (PT): (19:39) its not our decision :)
Pedro (PT): (19:39) well greece?
aggeliki: (19:39) stefanos?
aggeliki: (19:39) do u wan?
aggeliki: (19:39) or i do it, ok we will ttake it
Stefanos (Greece): (19:40) no
Stefanos (Greece): (19:40) :D
Stefanos (Greece): (19:40) ok
Pedro (PT): (19:40) hum got abit lost
Pedro (PT): (19:40) your saying you will take the coordenator job?
aggeliki: (19:41) yes
Pedro (PT): (19:41) i wasn't directly asking that but ok if we keep the rotation we have volunteers already
aggeliki: (19:42) i thought u asked us
Pedro (PT): (19:42) so it seems aggeliki stefanos reimer - rotation
Nathan: (19:42) :D
Stefanos (Greece): (19:42) haha
Pedro (PT): (19:42) nathan lipfert - portugal
Pedro (PT): (19:42) i was asking your opinion pool wise
Pedro (PT): (19:42) hehe
Pedro (PT): (19:42) you can still rethink
aggeliki: (19:43) is there any other volunteer???
Pedro (PT): (19:43) if rootation is kept it will stay the same, a rotation so..
Pedro (PT): (19:43) and we are a volunteer so to speak
Daniel (PT): (19:44) if rotation continues you have to prepares your meetings better...
Arne R.: (19:44) let's keep the rotation like last round
Arne R.: (19:44) next meeting, I'll do the coordinators job
Arne L (Germany): (19:44) come on guys...keep it serious. if someone would do the job he should do it...so everythink is in one hand and we got a bit structure in it
Pedro (PT): (19:44) exactly
Pedro (PT): (19:44) i was in favor of the first round
Pedro (PT): (19:45) because i believe every1 should have the oportunity of having the experience
Pedro (PT): (19:45) now that thats done
Pedro (PT): (19:45) we don't mind planning all the meetings from here on
Daniel (PT): (19:45) i'm a big fan of structure
Pedro (PT): (19:46) so on a serius note its realy a matter if you want to coordenate or not
Pedro (PT): (19:46) because you don't lose anything if you don't
Pedro (PT): (19:46) so whos in favor of keeping the rootation?
Pedro (PT): (19:47) this is the last thing to close todays meeting
Daniel (PT): (19:47) just raise your hand...
Pedro (PT): (19:47) we are reaching our 45min mark
Pedro (PT): (19:48) make me proud and let me do a good time guess just once :P
Nathan: (19:48) everyone's gone?
Stefanos (Greece): (19:48) na
Stefanos (Greece): (19:48) :P
Nathan: (19:48) :p
Arne R.: (19:49) rotation
Pedro (PT): (19:49) then yay or nay liek reimer
Arne R.: (19:49) i'll do it netxt week
Pedro (PT): (19:49) 1 for rotation
Nathan: (19:50) portugal! 
Pedro (PT): (19:50) 1-1
Arne L (Germany): (19:50) ok...then do the ratation. i dont care. we are talking now for 10 min on that
Pedro (PT): (19:50) jsut 2 votes from greece missing
Pedro (PT): (19:50) and we can end this 
Stefanos (Greece): (19:50) port
Stefanos (Greece): (19:50) :D
aggeliki: (19:50) keep it the way it was 
Pedro (PT): (19:51) so rotation wins
Pedro (PT): (19:51) and as requested
Nathan: (19:51) woho, lost :p
Pedro (PT): (19:51) germany can be the next coordenator
Nathan: (19:51) ok
aggeliki: (19:51) ok
Arne L (Germany): (19:51) ok...see you next week
Pedro (PT): (19:51) meeting adjurned :) have a rest of a nice day
Arne R.: (19:51) ok, i'll send you a timetable by the end of the week
Daniel (PT): (19:52) ok thank you Arne
Nathan: (19:52) cv
Daniel (PT): (19:52) good job every1
Daniel (PT): (19:52) now back to work!
aggeliki: (19:52) u2
Nathan: (19:52) we will put the website on git tomorrow :)
Daniel (PT): (19:52) thank you nathan
Stefanos (Greece): (19:53) bb ev1




.....

Extra

....




Daniel (PT): (19:53) and we need the HP layoutsand css too if you have them
Nathan: (19:54) that's for germany?
Daniel (PT): (19:54) germany has the layout right?
Nathan: (19:54) i guess
Daniel (PT): (19:54) then after you put plonk then germany puts the html
Arne R.: (19:54) yep
Daniel (PT): (19:55) when you do that Nathan send everyone an email
Arne R.: (19:55) we have an appointment tomorrow to finish the layout
Arne R.: (19:55) after plonk is set up, we add the design
Daniel (PT): (19:56) if anyone is interested you can add this rss to your feed reader: http://mutworange.git.sourceforge.net/git/gitweb.cgi?p=mutworange/mutworange;a=rss
Daniel (PT): (19:57) it alerts you anytime someone pushed an update to the git repo
Nathan: (19:57) ok
Nathan: (19:57) ok, i'll mail everyone
Nathan: (19:57) it will be tomorrow evening
Daniel (PT): (19:57) ok thank you Nathan
Daniel (PT): (19:58) that's all from me
Daniel (PT): (19:58) bye
