Pedro (PT): (3/21/2011 17:06)Êfirst of all lets make the status report as planed
Pedro (PT): (17:06)Êwe can start
Pedro (PT): (17:07)ÊWE (p8 package) have already come to an understanding
Pedro (PT): (17:07)Êof the data warehouse tecnologies that we will be implementing
Pedro (PT): (17:07)Êand the almost complete sketch of the business model
Pedro (PT): (17:08)Êwe still have some doubts about what data will be stored and what not
Pedro (PT): (17:08)Êbut we are plaining to implement it so your DB isnt affect in any way
Pedro (PT): (17:08)Êso be prepared to the necessety of caling a method from a class provided by us
Pedro (PT): (17:08)Êwhen you register an event liek a submission of a form
Pedro (PT): (17:09)Êmore specefications by the end of the next week
Pedro (PT): (17:09)Êour next step for the week is to make our DB schema ( relational model - snowflake)
Pedro (PT): (17:10)Êand start some interface specifications as asked by our coordenator
Pedro (PT): (17:10)Êand i belive thats it for us for now
Pedro (PT): (17:10)ÊNEXT at random
Stephane: (17:10)Êor P7?
Pedro (PT): (17:10)Êbelgium your up

Stephane: (17:13)ÊEuhm, we've did some research on which framework we could be using because as P-OUT and also P-IN we will have to code the biggest part of the application
Pedro (PT): (17:14)Ê2-3min...
Stephane: (17:14)ÊAnd that's why we would like to use Plonk or Yii and the last one in combination with Smarty
Stephane: (17:15)ÊAnd we would like to decide that today because we have a lot of coding to do (setting up numerous forms)
Stephane: (17:15)Êthat's out biggest concern for now
Stephane: (17:15)Êdone
Pedro (PT): (17:15)Êok good enouth we wil get to that after
Pedro (PT): (17:15)Ênext time prepare the report a little better :P

aggeliki: (17:16)Êwe have 8 forms to prepare and up to nw we have designed the first four using html and j-query
aggeliki: (17:16)Êwe just learned about the frameworks 
aggeliki: (17:17)Êand we still need to decide about  the final "style" of the applications with the belgian guys
Pedro (PT): (17:18)Êok noted the fframework issue
Pedro (PT): (17:18)ÊNEXT iceland

thib: (17:19)ÊWe've spent most of the time since Kiel figuring out how to calculate the correlation coff between two corpas
thib: (17:19)Êso we are basically working the algorithm to do the matching (We are going to go with a weighted form, returning a coff in the range [-1,1] to indicate correlation -> i.e. a match)
thib: (17:20)Êi'm writing up a tex file with the some of the algo, and it will be done in the next couple of weeks
thib: (17:20)Êbesides that, we have figured out that php has no sane way of supporting callouts to a process running on the service instance, so we are working on a solution to that
thib: (17:21)Êand as for the other packages, we've prepared mail to the p5, p8 and p9 groups w.r.t. hooks for our application into the web "app"
thib: (17:21)Êmails*
thib: (17:21)Êbasically, what we need in the databases to be able to our part, and how it needs to be present.

Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:23)Êok
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:24)Êand... that's all we have
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:24)Êwe need some discus with the other
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:24)Êto start doing something

Arne R - Germany: (17:24)Êas you may have noticed arne2 and me had/have to write our last exams for the winter term this week so we were more into learning for this. we talked about the framework issue and started working with jquery to get used to it. today i wrote my last exam and arne2 will write his tomorrow so we will meet later this week to write a SQL script which sets up the database for your personal test environment.
Arne R - Germany: (17:25)Êlater next week we will provide three design drafts from which you can choose. maybe we set up a poll or something.
Arne R - Germany: (17:25)Êa gantt chart is prepared and will be pushed via git later this afternoon.
Arne R - Germany: (17:25)Êthats it for today, sorry for our lazyness. but we had a hard week :)

...


aggeliki: (17:27)Ême too
Nathan: (17:27)Êi agree with the current meeting protocol :)
Pedro (PT): (17:27)Êok i agree with an alternate
Stephane: (17:27)Êjust a bitch that adobe connect is so lame
Stephane: (17:27)Êbut it works
Arne R - Germany: (17:27)Êi like hit. nice short reports
thib: (17:28)ÊIs there anyone here that is unfamilar with IRC ? (Or doesn't know what FreeNode is)
Arne R - Germany: (17:28)Êwhat about using irc?
thib: (17:28)Êyes please!
Pedro (PT): (17:28)Êirc y freenode nop
thib: (17:28)ÊArgue that please
Pedro (PT): (17:29)Êbulgaria you have to say something 
thib: (17:29)Êoops
Pedro (PT): (17:29)Êi don''t care
Stefanos (Greece): (17:29)Êi dont think irc is better than this...
Ina Ivanova: (17:29)Êi like adobe
Pedro (PT): (17:29)Êok every1 likes this
thib: (17:29)Êno?
Pedro (PT): (17:29)Êy the irc discussion is to an alternate
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:29)Êwhat about skype?
thib: (17:29)Êthats even worse then adobe
Pedro (PT): (17:30)Êy
Nathan: (17:30)Êi dont think skype will work with 12 people
Stephane: (17:30)Êlet us just use this?
Pedro (PT): (17:30)Êpersonaly skype is for 4 people max
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:30)ÊIt works
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:30)ÊYesterday I use it for 11 peaople conference call
Stephane: (17:30)Êchat, mail and sourceforge for exchanging documents
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:30)Êit was perfect
Nathan: (17:30)Êok, for now, i suggest we stay to adobe? and deside on the framework, db and so on?
aggeliki: (17:31)Êyes
Stefanos (Greece): (17:31)Êyep
Pedro (PT): (17:31)Êy
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:31)Êok
Ina Ivanova: (17:31)Êok
Arne R - Germany: (17:31)Êok: if we use an alternative to this, we should use irc. it's easy to set up, no account needed and i'ts nice plain text based chat. no flash, no window resizing...
Pedro (PT): (17:31)Êfuther discussion to alternates are now made in the forums please
Pedro (PT): (17:31)Ênext issue
thib: (17:31)ÊI'll post sth to the fourms w.r.t. IRC.
Pedro (PT): (17:32)Êdid any1 found any problem they want to coment on the report made b the others?
Pedro (PT): (17:32)Êmy first one is stephan you report sucked
daniel.lopes: (17:32)Êthordur mentioned using tex files
Nathan: (17:32)Êeum, whats wrong with doc, txt?
daniel.lopes: (17:33)Êthat tex file is for the rest of the team or yourselves?
thib: (17:33)Êhem, that was maybe a mistake, it's going to end up as a pdf.
Stefanos (Greece): (17:33)Êwe should discuss about the form CSS..
aggeliki: (17:34)Êwith the belgians
thib: (17:34)Êthe CSS ?
daniel.lopes: (17:34)Êif every1 was familiar with latex it would be good but let's stick with pdf/txt
thib: (17:34)Êyou are confusing things here daniel
Nathan: (17:34)Êuhu, first we need to have the main layout for the site, before we can start designing the forms
thib: (17:35)Êwhen it comes to the report: I'd prefer we'd do it in tex. but thats a problem for later.
daniel.lopes: (17:35)Êyes i agree
Pedro (PT): (17:35)Êok
aggeliki: (17:35)Êok,nathan we will make a conference during the week...tmr if possible
Nathan: (17:36)Êbut we still need the general layout, colours and so on
Pedro (PT): (17:36)Êy
Arne R - Germany: (17:36)Êas i've mentioned in my report, arne2 and me will provide 3 design drafts later next week. these 3 drafts can be discussed and one will be choosen
Pedro (PT): (17:36)Êbut first of all
Pedro (PT): (17:36)Êbulgaria is behind right now
Nathan: (17:36)Êok, thx arne
Pedro (PT): (17:37)Êi ask of you bulgaria citezens have you anything palned for this week?
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:37)Êresearch
Pedro (PT): (17:37)Êok i belive you should spend some time this week
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:37)Ênext 2 weeks are for research
Pedro (PT): (17:37)Êwith greece and belgium
Pedro (PT): (17:38)Êsince at least the exams part
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:38)Êyes
Pedro (PT): (17:38)Êare similar
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:38)Êi think we should arenge a meeting with them
Nathan: (17:38)Êok, no problem, we are available every day from 9 till 5
aggeliki: (17:39)Êwe are available after 3 every day
thib: (17:39)ÊSame time on mondays works for us.
Ina Ivanova: (17:39)Êok
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:39)Êok we can discus this later in emails
aggeliki: (17:39)Êok
Pedro (PT): (17:39)Ênow onto the framework issue
Nathan: (17:39)Êok, perfect
Pedro (PT): (17:40)Êwe wont be seeing php for a while
Pedro (PT): (17:40)Êso i wont comment on that issue since it wont affect me that much
thib: (17:40)ÊMe and Gummi have no stake in the framework since we'll do very minimal work on the web applications...
Pedro (PT): (17:40)Êbut i belive the ones that are affect should get to an agreement
thib: (17:41)Êthe .be guys are going to be writing most of the php code, I think this should be there decision ?
Nathan: (17:41)Êso just greece, bulgary, germany and belgium?
Arne R - Germany: (17:41)Êi agree with thib
Nathan: (17:41)Êi dont know if the germans will write the exchance in php?
Pedro (PT): (17:41)Êi belive the bulgary, germany and belgium are on the same page here
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:42)Êwe prefer php
Pedro (PT): (17:42)Êand greece
thib: (17:42)Êis there any question about using php ?
Stephane: (17:42)Êassembler would be cool
Ina Ivanova: (17:42)Ê:x
Stephane: (17:42)Êno PHP it is
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:42)Êhahahah
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:42)Ê:)
Nathan: (17:42)Êi dont think php is still an issue
Nathan: (17:43)Êjust which framework to write our php
aggeliki: (17:43)Êdefinetly NOT cool
thib: (17:43)Ê?
Nathan: (17:44)Êso php
Nathan: (17:44)Êok
Nathan: (17:44)Ênow librarie/framework

Nathan: (17:41)Êi dont know if the germans will write the exchance in php?
Pedro (PT): (17:41)Êi belive the bulgary, germany and belgium are on the same page here
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:42)Êwe prefer php
Pedro (PT): (17:42)Êand greece
thib: (17:42)Êis there any question about using php ?
Stephane: (17:42)Êassembler would be cool
Ina Ivanova: (17:42)Ê:x
Stephane: (17:42)Êno PHP it is
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:42)Êhahahah
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:42)Ê:)
Nathan: (17:42)Êi dont think php is still an issue
Nathan: (17:43)Êjust which framework to write our php
aggeliki: (17:43)Êdefinetly NOT cool
thib: (17:43)Ê?
Nathan: (17:44)Êso php
Nathan: (17:44)Êok
Nathan: (17:44)Ênow librarie/framework
Pedro (PT): (17:44)Êfirst wohs not familiar with the terms librarie and framework? so we are on the same page
Nathan: (17:44)Êok
aggeliki: (17:45)Êok
Arne R - Germany: (17:45)Êi never worked with php frameworks, but i'm familiar with the terms
Ina Ivanova: (17:45)Ême too
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (17:45)Ême as well
aggeliki: (17:45)Ême too
Nathan: (17:46)Êa framework is basicly a frame to build your site in, so very powerfull, but not so user friendly
Nathan: (17:47)Êfor a library, you can use multiple libraries in your site, for example, phpmailer is a library for mailing, phpgraph for building graphs
Pedro (PT): (17:47)Êok se we agree that the decision in design(css,  layout) and framework/libraries are up to belgium bulgarie greece and germany
Arne R - Germany: (17:47)Êfor me it's not a problem to work with a framework, but I can't help you to choose one. this matter should be decided by people how know pros and cons to give us the best advice
Nathan: (17:47)Êyou just include them in your project and you can use them in your code
Nathan: (17:48)Êthe plonk library we have from our school is something between a library and a framework, well documented
thib: (17:48)ÊIs is under a suitable license ?
Nathan: (17:48)Êlicence?
daniel.lopes: (17:48)ÊGPL, BSD, MIT
Nathan: (17:49)Êits just in use our school for now
Arne R - Germany: (17:49)ÊGPL, BSD, MIT or something elsE?
daniel.lopes: (17:49)Êit must have a license
Nathan: (17:49)Êits just a library our lecturer wrote
thib: (17:50)ÊIf we are going to use it, it needs to have a distribution license
Nathan: (17:50)Êwe asked our lecturer and it was no problem
Nathan: (17:50)Êsrr, BSD license
Nathan: (17:50)Êmy mistake
thib: (17:50)Êah! perfect.
Arne R - Germany: (17:50)Êok

Arne R - Germany: (17:51)Êok thats great nathan
thib: (17:52)ÊCan we discuss a little bit the hierarchy inside our source tree (the git repo) ?
Nathan: (17:52)Êand build a example with the basic functionality and directore structure 
Nathan: (17:52)Êexample site
Pedro (PT): (17:52)Êshure
Pedro (PT): (17:52)Êthib*
daniel.lopes: (17:52)Êyeah
Nathan: (17:52)Êif everyone agrees on plonk, me and stephane can put up the basis directory tree and so one
thib: (17:53)Êfwiw, I think you should just do it. This commitee style of making decisions is going to get us nowhere
Nathan: (17:54)Êok, i'll put it on git tonight
thib: (17:54)Êok, on to the tree maybe?
Nathan: (17:54)Êand we can arrange a meeting tomorrow with the members who will most need it
daniel.lopes: (17:55)Êyes go
Pedro (PT): (17:55)Êthe planning part is simple
Pedro (PT): (17:55)Êis for the gantt charts
Pedro (PT): (17:55)Êand any other type of documentation related
thib: (17:56)Êerrh, ok whatever. I dont see the point, but sure. (Like some of hte stuff in meetings/ should be in planning/ etc) it feels mixed up.
thib: (17:56)Êand whats the presentation dir for ?
thib: (17:56)Êeverything is full of unhelpful README files...
daniel.lopes: (17:57)Êthe presentation directory just serves to make the final presentation later on
thib: (17:58)Êokey
daniel.lopes: (17:58)ÊI couldn't commit empty directories so I added redundant README files
thib: (17:58)Êok, and the proper difference between meetings/ and planning/ is ?
Pedro (PT): (17:59)Ênot shure on the need for meetings
daniel.lopes: (17:59)Êthat was a mixup, the meetings directory should just contain the meeting transcriptions
Pedro (PT): (17:59)Êbut the ideia is to keep somewhere the meetings planing and more importantly the previus meetings sumaries
thib: (17:59)ÊCan I make a suggestion that we nuke both meetings and planning and just call it "docouments" or "stuff" or "dump" or whatever. and seperaate that into the package names ?
thib: (17:59)Êso every group as one place to dump crud, and call it a day ?
daniel.lopes: (18:00)Êsure why not
daniel.lopes: (18:00)Êwe'll call it documents
thib: (18:00)Êdocuments/ would be good (then you can have documents/meetings/datestamp.txt would be a log of the meeting) 
thib: (18:01)Êdaniel: are you going to handle that ?
daniel.lopes: (18:01)Êyes i'll do it
thib: (18:01)Êperfect
thib: (18:01)Êthen the sourcecode goes into erasmusline/ right ?
daniel.lopes: (18:01)ÊIf i run into any snag can I get some help from you?
daniel.lopes: (18:01)Êyes
thib: (18:02)Ê(please please please, don't seperate that into package name sub directories)
daniel.lopes: (18:02)Êshould the name be changed?
thib: (18:02)Êdaniel: sure no problem
thib: (18:02)Êthe "application" is called erasmusline, so I think the name is apt
daniel.lopes: (18:02)Êwasn't going to
daniel.lopes: (18:03)Êok then
thib: (18:03)Êbut there should be ofcourse some logical seperation in there, but yeah.
daniel.lopes: (18:04)Êagreed
Pedro (PT): (18:04)ÊOH i almost forgot arne 1 (otto) aparantly cant make it to this meetings at 5pm ever apparently
Pedro (PT): (18:04)Êarne reimer have anything to add?
Pedro (PT): (18:05)Êdid he tell you about hes schedule or something?
Arne R - Germany: (18:05)Êi'm available every monday, but would be better to arne2 in this meeting too
Arne R - Germany: (18:06)Êyes
Arne R - Germany: (18:06)Êhe is available from 7:30pm on mondays
Arne R - Germany: (18:06)ÊGMT

thib: (18:12)Êok, so whats left?
Nathan: (18:13)Êdatabase?
Arne R - Germany: (18:13)Êok thas me
thib: (18:13)Êschema or the actual database?
Pedro (PT) (privately): (18:13)Êi belive acompelte undersatind
Pedro (PT): (18:13)Êi belive a complete understanding
Pedro (PT): (18:13)Êof the forms need and how their going to work
Nathan: (18:14)Ênja i think we still have a lot discussion about the whole database design and implemenation
Pedro (PT): (18:14)Êis needed before having a full DB model
Pedro (PT): (18:14)Êhows the pre candi form thing going?
Pedro (PT): (18:14)Ê(note should have been mentioned in the status report, so it wouldnt suck pfft)
Pedro (PT): (18:15)Ênathan stephan?
thib: (18:15)ÊOK, me and gummy have to head out. We had other engagments at 19:00
Arne R - Germany: (18:16)Êarne and me will work on the database from tomorrow. we will provide our first results as soon as possible.
Pedro (PT): (18:16)Êok thib
Nathan: (18:16)Êok
Pedro (PT): (18:16)Êi belive for you is jsut the coding thing for now
Pedro (PT): (18:16)Êand the gantt till the next week
Stephane: (18:16)Êwe didn't talk about that
Stephane: (18:16)Êthat's for tomorrow
Pedro (PT): (18:17)Êok you still could have sayd no advance has been made
Pedro (PT): (18:17)Êso for now seems the DB cant be decided yet
Pedro (PT): (18:18)ÊLET me wrap this up then sine its been more than 1h long and ppl are fading away
Pedro (PT): (18:18)ÊFOR THIS NEXT WEEK
Pedro (PT): (18:19)Êlayout frameworks etc is to be discussed and preferably decided between germany belgium bulgaria and greece
aggeliki: (18:19)Êok
Pedro (PT): (18:19)Êevery1 has to put their gant in git asap
Ina Ivanova: (18:19)Êok
Pedro (PT): (18:19)Ênot realy asap but well you get it
Pedro (PT): (18:19)Êbulgaria has to be put on par
Stefanos (Greece): (18:19)Êok
Pedro (PT): (18:20)Êplease meet between yourselfs
Nathan: (18:20)Êalready done :)
Pedro (PT): (18:20)Êdon't be afraid to aks discuss etc
Pedro (PT): (18:20)Êim always open for some talking and helping myself
Ina Ivanova: (18:20)Ê:)
Pedro (PT): (18:20)Êthe next meeting will be 1 and half hour later so lazy arne 2 can come
Pedro (PT): (18:21)Êand for the next coordinator
Pedro (PT): (18:21)Êwe go random or i have any volunteers?
Pedro (PT): (18:21)Êno volunteers it seems
Pedro (PT): (18:21)Êdon't forget this is a learing experience
Pedro (PT): (18:22)Êi can help the next coordenator planning the next meeting if he wishs
Stefanos (Greece): (18:22)Êi believe you are great coordenator
Pedro (PT): (18:22)Êtake 1..
Pedro (PT): (18:22)Êtake 2..
Pedro (PT): (18:22)Êtake 3..
Pedro (PT): (18:22)Êok random it is
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (18:23)ÊI'm agree with Stephanos
Zvezdimir Tsvyatkov: (18:23)Ê:)
Stefanos (Greece): (18:23)Ê;)
Pedro (PT): (18:23)Êi realy don't mind coordenating but we agreed on passing by the torch at least once
Pedro (PT): (18:23)Êand i can take all the laters ones if needed
Pedro (PT): (18:23)Êi still want every1 to get the experience
daniel.lopes: (18:23)Êevery1 pull the changes from git repo when conveninent
Pedro (PT): (18:23)Êso the next coordinator is...
Pedro (PT): (18:23)Êarne 2 (otto)
Arne R - Germany: (18:24)Êok
daniel.lopes: (18:24)Êok
Pedro (PT): (18:24)Êwe will try to put on git tomorrow the meeting log
Pedro (PT): (18:24)Êand summary
Stefanos (Greece): (18:24)Êmr.Arne for now on..
Arne R - Germany: (18:24)Êi'll tell i'm that he received the honor :)
Pedro (PT): (18:24)Êso meeting adjurned
Nathan: (18:24)Êok, i will put the Plonk library and explanation at git tonight
Pedro (PT): (18:25)Êplease work beter on your status report next time
Nathan: (18:25)Êi got to go
Arne R - Germany: (18:25)Êok, went well. i like this text style.
Stefanos (Greece): (18:25)Êi got to go too...
Pedro (PT): (18:25)Êspecialy if you already have some issues that you would liek form others etc
Nathan: (18:25)Êfor the php'ers ;), check your mail and see you tomorrow
Pedro (PT): (18:25)Êand see you all next week
Arne R - Germany: (18:25)Êthank you pedro for beeing the first coordinator
aggeliki: (18:25)Êbb,have a nice and creative week!!

