Meeting on 23-03-2011 with some stealth participation from portugal

Topics discussed:

	-A bit of a discussion back and forth about the DB:

		a)Mostly just protugal trying to understand some things;
		b)A suggestion from portugal to add a status field to the ErasmusInfoPerStudent table | Still has to be looked upon, no final decision on it;
		c)Some of the discussion was carired by voice so the log might get abit confusing.

	-Discussion about registering leaded to a discussion on the scope of the project and deployment in which a creation of a 'tree' of responsabilities
	and jobs seems to have been agreed upon or at least a look at it.


Warning: Some goofiness and jokes may cross your reading, you have been warned.
	 Also a few parts of the conversation might be missing.





Pedro (PT): (12:32) i can just get them myself
Pedro (PT): (12:32) but atm thats the least of our problems
Stephane: (12:32) indeed
Stephane: (12:33) first is the database and the information exchange protocol that needs to be set up
Pedro (PT): (12:34) if a process is rejected or canceled wheres that info kept?
Pedro (PT): (12:35) status enum?
Stephane: (12:35) that part we still have to figure out
Stephane: (12:35) but i think it simple to solve
Stephane: (12:35) just a table with the id of the eramusinforperstudent and than save every event for that student
Pedro (PT): (12:36) erasmusprogressperstudent --- if it has a relation of n to 1 to the erasmus info then ok it has a porpouse
Pedro (PT): (12:36) but if in the end its 1:1
Pedro (PT): (12:36) they should be merged
Stephane: (12:36) and status is a table which holds all the status (pre-candidate filled in, pre-candidate rejected and so on)
Pedro (PT): (12:37) given the current draft
Pedro (PT): (12:37) erasmusInfo is the 'process'
Stephane: (12:37) yes that should be n to 1 indeed
Pedro (PT): (12:37) it identifies the process etc
Stephane: (12:37) my bad
Pedro (PT): (12:38) ok its suposed to be 1 to n
Pedro (PT): (12:38) then try o visualise that in action
Pedro (PT): (12:38) and don't be sry
Pedro (PT): (12:38) no1s sry here
Stephane: (12:38) there should only be 3 fields in the table ErasmusProgressPerStudent: id - event - timestamp
Pedro (PT): (12:38) thats why we discuss things etc
Pedro (PT): (12:39) ok
Pedro (PT): (12:39) i get its pourpouse now
Pedro (PT): (12:39) damn my spelling
Pedro (PT): (12:39) jesus crist...
Stephane: (12:39) no problem
Stephane: (12:40) But I think we should help the germans because they have a lot of work
Stephane: (12:40) especially for the info exchange module
Pedro (PT): (12:40) already sent them
Pedro (PT): (12:40) an email
Pedro (PT): (12:40) about that subject
Pedro (PT): (12:40) i kinda psyed your reunions yesterday
Stephane: (12:40) as far as i understand it we have to find a common protocol plus a common way of building a message
Stephane: (12:40) ^^
Pedro (PT): (12:41) spyed*
Pedro (PT): (12:42) the common protocol 'inside a program' doesnt realy exist
Pedro (PT): (12:42) to some extent
Pedro (PT): (12:42) LETS say
Pedro (PT): (12:42) the basic ideia is this
Pedro (PT): (12:43) you have a method thats expecting a string and returns a boolean
Pedro (PT): (12:43) sometimes the string comes from a exterior source as an int
Pedro (PT): (12:43) thats the job of the infox to work as a mediator
Pedro (PT): (12:43) so the way we do things internaly
Pedro (PT): (12:43) doesnt get afected by the exterior protocols
Pedro (PT): (12:44) theres more things to it but tis is the basic cncept
Pedro (PT): (12:44) understandable? not understandable?
Stephane: (12:44) yes :)
Stephane: (12:45) i was just thinking about a simple protocol to let the home institution know when the host is sending information
Pedro (PT): (12:45) also as i told them the DBconnection class can already be done
Stephane: (12:45) something like a "HELLO" message or so
Pedro (PT): (12:45) in those cases
Pedro (PT): (12:46) you just send to the infox the target institution and the type of message
Pedro (PT): (12:46) and they are responsible of creating the message and seing it with the needed tecnologies
Pedro (PT): (12:46) emails
Pedro (PT): (12:46) etc
Pedro (PT): (12:46) thats the base ideia
Pedro (PT): (12:46) sending*
Pedro (PT): (12:46) dam im eating letters today
Stephane: (12:47) by meaning sending to the info exchange module you mean using their module that's inegrated in your own webapplication or like a completely separated system?
Pedro (PT): (12:47) its integrated
Pedro (PT): (12:47) its like when you add a class that does some job for you
Pedro (PT): (12:47) and you use it
Pedro (PT): (12:48) for example the String type
Pedro (PT): (12:48) is a class
Pedro (PT): (12:48) that simplefies the labour of using char arrays etc
Stephane: (12:48) was my understanding to, gladd we're on the same wavelength :)
Pedro (PT): (12:49) you wish you could surf as me
Pedro (PT): (12:49) ha!
Stephane: (12:49) lol
Pedro (PT): (12:50) another thing if you wish anytime you all schedule meetings
Pedro (PT): (12:50) you can send me the schedule and i can pass by
Pedro (PT): (12:50) and commet mid meeting if i have time stuff like that
Pedro (PT): (12:50) OH also
Pedro (PT): (12:50) wheres my gantt
Pedro (PT): (12:50) im hungry for it
Stephane: (12:52) yes, we're not finished with it
Stephane: (12:53) it's hard setting deadlines because we know it will be impossible to make them
Pedro (PT): (12:53) exactly
Pedro (PT): (12:53) jsut schedule some
Pedro (PT): (12:53) its suposed to change
Stephane: (12:53) we could make a gantt on what we will do, but harder to say wen it will be finished
Pedro (PT): (12:53) as times goes by
Stephane: (12:53) ah okay
Pedro (PT): (12:54) lets say
Pedro (PT): (12:54) if you could do all the deadlines now
Pedro (PT): (12:54) and they worked till the end
Pedro (PT): (12:54) somethings worng :p
Pedro (PT): (12:54) the ideia is that tihs helps keep a prepective of our your going etc
Pedro (PT): (12:54) and also to the others
Pedro (PT): (12:54) by the complete % etc
Pedro (PT): (12:54) o no this is tanking longer than expected
Pedro (PT): (12:54) change dealine
Pedro (PT): (12:55) or its already done
Pedro (PT): (12:55) i can start this thing sooner
Stephane: (12:55) ah okay
Stephane: (12:55) okay we'll try to finish it today
Stephane: (12:56) but we have to make a screencast where we show how Plonk works
Stephane: (12:56) horror :')
Stephane: (12:56) and Nathan made a report on the meeting of yesterday
Pedro (PT): (12:56) you brought that up yourselfs :P
Stephane: (12:57) he will post it tonight because the problem with the firewall
Pedro (PT): (12:57) yy crapy school
Stephane: (12:57) yes, but they appreciated it
Stephane: (12:57) i kinda hoped they would say no :)
Pedro (PT): (12:59) for educational porpouses
Pedro (PT): (12:59) http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PeQgaNzwIeg





############ PAUSE ##################





Pedro (PT): (14:45) yes no?
Stephane: (14:45) i'm trying to understand
Pedro (PT): (14:46) lets put it like this
Pedro (PT): (14:46) the simple info of canceled or not
Pedro (PT): (14:46) cannot be acess directly
Stephane: (14:46) erasmusinfo is just defining where a student wants to go and so on
Pedro (PT): (14:46) you have to go throu the porcess table
Pedro (PT): (14:46) and find the satus that your looking for
Pedro (PT): (14:47) try making a query in your midn that looks if x studant erasmus was canceled or not
Pedro (PT): (14:47) might help
Stephane: (14:48) maybe adding an extra field in the table process which states if it's completed ot cancelled?
Stephane: (14:48) makes it easier
Pedro (PT): (14:48) but if you had it to the process table
Pedro (PT): (14:48) it will afect only that process
Pedro (PT): (14:48) not the overall erasmus
Pedro (PT): (14:48) add*
Stephane: (14:49) hmm, in that table you have all the events of all students and you can find the events specific for one student based on the id of that student
Stephane: (14:50) so you can follow it process
Pedro (PT): (14:50) y
Pedro (PT): (14:50) but being redundant in this case
Pedro (PT): (14:50) wouldnt benefir us?
Pedro (PT): (14:50) benefit*
Pedro (PT): (14:51) because you will have a whole line on a table
Pedro (PT): (14:51) just for something that ca be in a column
Stephane: (14:52) you can't put all the events in one column?
Pedro (PT): (14:52) its a Text column
Pedro (PT): (14:52) update taht line n htat table
Pedro (PT): (14:52) fom a to b
Pedro (PT): (14:52) when needed
Stephane: (14:53) but you have save all the events that happened related to a certain student, no?
Pedro (PT): (14:53) yes
Stephane: (14:53) for your statistics
Pedro (PT): (14:53) im jsut saying
Pedro (PT): (14:53) the overall status
Pedro (PT): (14:53) if its not worth adding
Stephane: (14:53) you mean his present state in an axtra field?
Stephane: (14:53) extra*
Stephane: (14:54) so you don't have to check that table
Stephane: (14:54) ?
Pedro (PT): (14:54) like evaluation(going trhou the forms process), ongiong(already on erasmus in the given country), completed(already came back home blablablaO), canceled(was rejected, go to the kitchen)
Pedro (PT): (14:54) its not all the events
Pedro (PT): (14:54) jsut a status
Pedro (PT): (14:55) because i find ood to put a status like canceled
Pedro (PT): (14:55) on the processes
Stephane: (14:55) wait, i think i get it
Stephane: (14:55) try to add it live
Pedro (PT): (14:57) y thats the ideia
Stephane: (14:57) good idea :)
Pedro (PT): (14:57) now if your going to useit or not thats waht we are discussing
Pedro (PT): (14:57) because otherwise you would have to go throu all the events
Pedro (PT): (14:58) to find a comon ground on where your stading
Pedro (PT): (14:58) in the oveall process
Pedro (PT): (14:58) agree?
Stephane: (14:58) agree :)
Pedro (PT): (14:58) ok now when you meet with the others
Pedro (PT): (14:58) decide which status there will be
Pedro (PT): (14:58) that might be helpful etc
Stephane: (14:59) indeed
Pedro (PT): (14:59) now is there anything we might help? some doubt in your minds?
Stephane: (14:59) there will be alot i suppose
Pedro (PT): (14:59) cause for now im done *attacking* the db
Stephane: (15:00) euhm we had some arguments and that's why we would have a meeting with the greeks now
Stephane: (15:00) but now you're here
Stephane: (15:00) sorry had to stop sharing my screen
Pedro (PT): (15:01) yy np
aggeliki: (15:01) hi
Pedro (PT): (15:01) i assume i wasnt in the middle of the meeting?
Pedro (PT): (15:01) heya
Stephane: (15:01) no 
Nathan: (15:01) started @ 3 GMT
Stephane: (15:01) so right on time :)
Pedro (PT): (15:01) lol
Pedro (PT): (15:01) then amazing time for our conclusion
Stephane: (15:02) we had some problems with defining how we would do the initial registration
Stephane: (15:02) because you have not only students and so on but also coordinators and mentors




############ PAUSE ##################




aggeliki: (15:30) yes
Nathan: (15:31) yes
Nathan: (15:31) so we're back were we started, how do they register :)
Stephane: (15:31) but at first, you can do like daniel said, define a default password and then when the app is at the institution setting up your admin account and filling in the info about your institute and then sending that to all the other institutions so they can put it in thei db 
Stephane: (15:31) their*
Pedro (PT): (15:32) hows the app on the institution?
Pedro (PT): (15:32) what kind of deployemnt are you palning?
Stephane: (15:32) by the responsible person you talked about
Stephane: (15:32) Pedro (PT): (16:25) theres a 'master admin' choosen by the eramus organization
Pedro (PT): (15:33) y
Pedro (PT): (15:33) n the app is at the institution s
Pedro (PT): (15:33) you said this
Pedro (PT): (15:33) why woudl the app be AT the institution
Pedro (PT): (15:33) because of the descentralized DB problem?
Pedro (PT): (15:33) thats whats crossing oyur mind?
Pedro (PT): (15:34) pls give me feedback, greece to
Pedro (PT): (15:34) because its harder to explain without feedback
Pedro (PT): (15:34) i even might be wrong on the matter
Stephane: (15:34) yes the point is the application runs on the institutes local server
Pedro (PT): (15:35) have you thought on the implications of that?
Pedro (PT): (15:35) not saying its wrong
aggeliki: (15:36) do you all from all the countries have a personal student account to enter your mails and course stuff or not?
Pedro (PT): (15:36) we have to decide the scope of things
Stephane: (15:36) yes, but than you have to work with LDAP or something like that
Pedro (PT): (15:37) think liek this whos responsible for adding X information, or manage Y information
Pedro (PT): (15:37) with this line of thought we start getting a scope of things
Pedro (PT): (15:37) should we give responsibilitys by countrys? institutions? departments?
Pedro (PT): (15:38) without much thought out of my mind i find the need of giving separate responsibilitys
Pedro (PT): (15:38) to each institution
Pedro (PT): (15:38) now upping the scope
Pedro (PT): (15:38) who adds the institutions?
Pedro (PT): (15:38) each country responsible?
Pedro (PT): (15:38) is that necessary or an it be the overall erasmus responsible
Pedro (PT): (15:38) ala master admin
Stephane: (15:39) uhu
Pedro (PT): (15:39) when you complain to an organization you dont talk with the boss
Stephane: (15:39) hmm
Pedro (PT): (15:39) you talk with someone that is responsible for that part
Pedro (PT): (15:39) therefor that person has powers that allow him in his job
Stephane: (15:39) we can't deicde that if we will be using a master admin or not
Stephane: (15:40) because we don't have that authority i think
Stephane: (15:40) Have to ask my teacher I think
Pedro (PT): (15:40) there has to be some kind of mastery here
Pedro (PT): (15:40) at least regarding the adding new isntitutions to the program
Pedro (PT): (15:40) they cant just add themselves
Pedro (PT): (15:41) i belive
Pedro (PT): (15:41) now onto the registering thingy
Stephane: (15:41) Uhu, that's the hardest part
Pedro (PT): (15:41) when we start giving responsibilitys
Stephane: (15:41) indeed
Pedro (PT): (15:42) thats when we might find if the site provides that or it must pass throu someone with the power
Pedro (PT): (15:42) to make that decision
Stephane: (15:42) I think the admin of an institution should create eveybody above the students, that aren't that many accounts
Stephane: (15:42) and then the coordinators should check the students accounts
aggeliki: (15:43) i m sorry,it has been 5.45 i have to go
aggeliki: (15:43) when you come t a solution,send me by email
Pedro (PT): (15:43) ok angel we will keep a log or somthing
Pedro (PT): (15:43) bye
Stephane: (15:43) bye
Pedro (PT): (15:43) as i was about to say
Pedro (PT): (15:44) we could suggest even that
Pedro (PT): (15:44) you cant creat accs on the website
Stephane: (15:44) so a student can't add himself?
Pedro (PT): (15:45) duno
Pedro (PT): (15:45) which would be the best aproach?
Stephane: (15:45) isn't that a lot of work for a coordinator than?
Pedro (PT): (15:45) its up to us to prupose a solution
Pedro (PT): (15:45) find the ups and cons
Pedro (PT): (15:45) and decide
Stephane: (15:45) make the student add himself and than the coordinator can check if the info if that student is a member of he school in question
Pedro (PT): (15:46) ok but how does it check it then
Pedro (PT): (15:46) we allow a field to put the student id?
Stephane: (15:46) he just gives al his info
Pedro (PT): (15:46) or its up to them to make a search by name only
Stephane: (15:47) then you have to include the schools database in the webapp
Pedro (PT): (15:48) ok you want a descentralized DB by institutions
Pedro (PT): (15:48) but at least the list of institutions has to be centralized
Pedro (PT): (15:48) how do we go about that process of adding an institution
Stephane: (15:49) we had a scenario like this: students fills in basic info, he gets an email to confirm his registration (in that way you prevent someone else from adding you to the system) AFTER that the coordinators checks if the student is a member of the school, if not, account is deleted, if so, the student can fill in pre candidate
Pedro (PT): (15:49) agreed
Stephane: (15:49) or maybe directly include the pre candidate
Stephane: (15:49) so you can 2 steps at once
Stephane: (15:50) and I thought we skipped the part about adding institutions for now 
Stephane: (15:50) my bad
Pedro (PT): (15:50) no keep going
Pedro (PT): (15:50) just keep increasing the scope as you go
Stephane: (15:51) and as I said the institutions admin can add everyone above the students
Stephane: (15:52) and than there is, who is responsible for adding the institution
Stephane: (15:52) the so called super mega shizzle admin
Pedro (PT): (15:52) ok in this regard
Pedro (PT): (15:52) we seem all to have reached and early draft that we agree?
Pedro (PT): (15:52) nathan stefanos?
Nathan: (15:53) i was reading with stephane
Pedro (PT): (15:53) i know jsut pissing oyu off
Stephane: (15:53) ^^
Stephane: (15:53) it works
Nathan: (15:53) d
Nathan: (15:53) *:d
Pedro (PT): (15:53) stefanos your with us?
Pedro (PT): (15:53) seems i replaced the greeks?
Stephane: (15:54) how do you keep a log of this chat?
Pedro (PT): (15:54) myself
Stephane: (15:54) would be handy for furher problems
Nathan: (15:54) we had some other questions, but that will be for tomorrow
Pedro (PT): (15:54) im just copy pasting as it goes
Stephane: (15:54) ohw nice
Stephane: (15:54) love that motivation
Nathan: (15:54) i'll put the meeting report of yesterday on git tonight
Nathan: (15:54) and replace plonk ;)
Pedro (PT): (15:54) and gantt RWARR
Stephane: (15:54) yes
Nathan: (15:55) gantt??
Stephane: (15:55) lol
Pedro (PT): (15:55) nathan you dont know what gantt is?
Pedro (PT): (15:55) are we going to have a talk in greece?
Stefanos (Greece): (15:55) :D sorry guys...
Stephane: (15:55) you saw the post about the adobe.connect session tomorrow and friday?
Pedro (PT): (15:55) hmm hmm hmm?
Stephane: (15:56) ah damn
Nathan: (15:56) i'll put it on the forum
Nathan: (15:56) just a second
Pedro (PT): (15:56) stefanos scroll up a bit
Pedro (PT): (15:56) a give us your thoughts pls
Nathan: (15:56) just mailed it a the ones of the meeting yesterdagy
Stefanos (Greece): (15:58) we had a scenario like this: students fills in basic info, he gets an email to confirm his registration (in that way you prevent someone else from adding you to the system) AFTER that the coordinators checks if the student is a member of the school, if not, account is deleted, if so, the student can fill in pre candidate
Stefanos (Greece): (15:58) its good idea...
Pedro (PT): (15:58) ok wer all on the same page it seems
Pedro (PT): (15:58) nwo to move from easy to normal
Pedro (PT): (15:59) the deployemnt implications
Stefanos (Greece): (15:59) so coordinator will activate/delete accounts through a panel right?
Pedro (PT): (15:59) yes
Pedro (PT): (15:59) id say thats the ideial
Stephane: (15:59) yes , the accounts of the students
Nathan: (16:00) @Greece (just a small remark about the forms we got from greece, we like them, but instead of using tabels, our lecturer told us that it is not done, but instead we should use definition lists or css to layout the forms)
Stephane: (16:00) and if you want to labels in a different way it would be hard
Stefanos (Greece): (16:00) we'll try..
Stephane: (16:00) but apart from that, the forms are really good :)
Stefanos (Greece): (16:01) i'v some questions too...
Stephane: (16:01) and we hadn't the functionality for adding fields in our forms, so good good :)
Nathan: (16:01) with css, if we have one css file, then all our forms would be the same, without having to adapt a single thing
Stefanos (Greece): (16:02) *adding fields*???
Stephane: (16:02) at 4:15 GMT we have to go 
Nathan: (16:02) in the future
Nathan: (16:02) more options, etc
Stephane: (16:02) in your form
Stephane: (16:02) there was abutton to add fields
Stephane: (16:02) the learning agreement
Stephane: (16:02) we hadn't that functionality yet
Pedro (PT): (16:03) ha!
Stefanos (Greece): (16:03) i'm trying to implement a function in jquery for adding more info (table rows)
Pedro (PT): (16:03) 3 weeks of advance and greece beats you
Pedro (PT): (16:03) cof cof
Stephane: (16:03) (yes I told aggeliki we already made the same as you but yours is already more complete so :) )
Nathan: (16:03) bye pedro :)
Stefanos (Greece): (16:03) i want to ask you somenthing guys...
Stephane: (16:03) perdo, we also had to do some other stuff, nyez :)
Pedro (PT): (16:03) kidding
Stephane: (16:04) pedro* :')
Pedro (PT): (16:04) its not like i have more
Stephane: (16:04) Your function for adding more table rows worked, no?
Pedro (PT): (16:04) and theres the DB etc
Stefanos (Greece): (16:04) in the text u send us there is some Certificate forms...
Pedro (PT): (16:04) your so hurtful
Nathan: (16:04) uhu
Pedro (PT): (16:04) :P
Stefanos (Greece): (16:05) these forms is shown only on coordinators 
Stefanos (Greece): (16:05) and they are filling with values from the db right?
Stephane: (16:06) yes
Stephane: (16:06) some parts are
Stefanos (Greece): (16:06) and why you write common next to them?
Stephane: (16:06) other wont
Stefanos (Greece): (16:07) (these values are from allready completed fields)
Stephane: (16:07) ah yes, because they are not official ECTS forms but are common across the institutions
Stephane: (16:07) you can check that in the document about erasmusline
Stephane: (16:07) page 52 53
Stefanos (Greece): (16:07) ok
Stephane: (16:07) there is a complete schema of the flow
Stephane: (16:07) scheme*
Stephane: (16:08) was that the question,
Stephane: (16:08) ?
Stefanos (Greece): (16:08) yep..
Stephane: (16:08) ah okay great
Pedro (PT): (16:08) next question
Stephane: (16:09) we have to go in 5 minutes
Pedro (PT): (16:09) you still have 3 min stephan
Stephane: (16:09) indeed
Stephane: (16:09) @stefanos: did you get the maila bout the plonk demonstration we will give on adobe connect?
Stephane: (16:10) mail*
Stefanos (Greece): (16:10) yep..
Stefanos (Greece): (16:10) friday sounds good
Nathan: (16:11) ok we'll be online tomorrow afternoon and friday afternoon
Nathan: (16:11) we'll see who's online then
Stephane: (16:11) and pedro? you had a question?
Nathan: (16:11) now we are off
Nathan: (16:11) see you tomorrow or friday :)
Nathan: (16:11) bye
Pedro (PT): (16:11) for myself the awnser is getting this going so no no 'actual ' question
Pedro (PT): (16:12) also as i try to help it forces me to understand the overall project better
Pedro (PT): (16:12) go with the winds
Pedro (PT): (16:13) btw you want the log?
Stephane: (16:13) Btw, our teacher told us portugal has the lead over this project, i didn't know this :)
Stephane: (16:13) you can put it on git
Pedro (PT): (16:13) well the professors or coordenators part yea
Stephane: (16:13) if you want
Pedro (PT): (16:13) so we are kind inted to do the same
Pedro (PT): (16:13) but i dont mind
Stephane: (16:13) yes, Nathan knew this, I didn't
Stephane: (16:13) but cool
Stephane: (16:14) glad it's not me :)
Stephane: (16:14) now have to go
Stephane: (16:14) see you tomorrow or so
Pedro (PT): (16:14) just go already

