= Meeting Report  =

Subject: 
Date:09/05/2011
Start Hour:18:00GMT
End Hour:20:00GMT

== Personnel ==
Coordinator: Stéphane Polet
Transcriber: Nathan Van Asschen

Attending: Arne Reimer, Arne Lipfert, Pedro Ferreira, Daniel Lopes,
Nathan Assche, Stéphane Polet, Aggeliki Katsiampouri, Zvezdomir Tsvyatkov

Absent:, Ina Ivanova, Mountrakis Stefanos
    Thordur Bjornsson, Gudmundur Hallgrimsson
    
First our apologies because we forgot to send a mail about the meeting
so the people who where absent may be excused this time.

== Report ==

->What have we done this week ( each team )  problems/questions
    
-> Zvezdomir had some problems getting the site online and with the login functionality.
    We will try to figure out the problem this week.

-> Belgium and Germany are going to put 2 applications online in order to start testing the infox module.

-> Portugal will coordinate the next meetings. ( vote )

-> Greece will finish their forms by wednesday and then push them to GIT.